README.md, before:

# Summary of Issues

This readme serves a summary of issues that DeltaDeFi is facing surrounding Hydra. Current issues are all produced by stress-testing hydra node. So can be summarized as derived issues from scalability.

## BLOCKING

This is grouped by issues that affect seriously

1. TPS

   - Rationale: We will be running multiple pairs on same hydra machine. Currently limitation can roughly support 1 order per second on each pair (assume we have 5 pairs).
   - Hydra core seems to process transaction one by one which can only serves up to 10TPS. Ideally it can serve up to 1k mark.
   - Details: [stress-test](./stress-test/README.md)
   - Acceptance criteria: 1k TPS

## CRITICAL

1. Make [1.3.0](https://github.com/cardano-scaling/hydra/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) changes optional

   - Rationale: This change introduces random downtime for duration of a few seconds, which severely affect trading reliability.
   - The security concern is legit, but not applicable to our case. In DeltaDeFi usage we disgard the contestant period logics since the trust assumption we apply is reputation based. So the fix is irrelevant but introduce UX overhaul in our case.
   - This is non-blocking since we can not updating hydra node and stay at version 1.2.0.
   - Acceptance criteria: make it optional flag

2. Memory bloat

   - Rationale: When UTXOs set grows, we observed a higher than linear space complexity, resulting in unpractical machine cose.
   - This is non-blocking since we can simply scale machine at start, but this is not sustainable if DeltaDeFi grows traction.
   - Details: [memory-bloat](./memory-bloat/issue-summary.md)
   - Acceptance criteria: can support

3. Fail to confirm snapshot

   - Rationale: It affect fund safety and result in stale head.
   - It happens in high load situation (like in [stress-test](./stress-test/)).
   - This is non-blocking since we have 2 mitigations:
     - Using sideload snapshot to recover. But from past exprience, side load
     - now temporarily forking from 1.2.0 to apply fix on this.

## IMPORTANT

1. Sideload snapshot instability

   - From time to time, we see sideload snapshot timeout:

   ```json
   {
     "tag": "SideLoadSnapshotSubmitted",
     "timeout": "Operation timed out after 300s seconds"
   }
   ```

   - This is not critical since we only experience it at edge usage (recovering old snapshot), investigating inside we see:

   ```json
   {
     "timestamp": "2026-01-05T07:28:17.153461661Z",
     "threadId": 93,
     "namespace": "HydraNode-\"alice-node\"",
     "message": {
       "node": {
         "by": {
           "vkey": "9d0ef705011396676ae1ed5f49924613d27d00c8d60eae28d3f9afeb7d2a6a39"
         },
         "outcome": {
           "error": {
             "sideLoadRequirementFailure": {
               "lastSeenSn": 760,
               "requestedSn": 7,
               "tag": "SideLoadSnNumberInvalid"
             },
             "tag": "SideLoadSnapshotFailed"
           },
           "tag": "Error"
         },
         "tag": "LogicOutcome"
       },
       "tag": "Node"
     }
   }
   ```

   - Acceptance criteria: confirmation of sideload snapshot will work in normal circumstances. Ideally with a table showing what scenario would fail.

Commit message:

add snapshot confirmation issue details

README.md, after:

# Summary of Issues

This readme serves a summary of issues that DeltaDeFi is facing surrounding Hydra. Current issues are all produced by stress-testing hydra node. So can be summarized as derived issues from scalability.

## BLOCKING

This is grouped by issues that affect seriously

1. TPS

   - Rationale: We will be running multiple pairs on same hydra machine. Currently limitation can roughly support 1 order per second on each pair (assume we have 5 pairs).
   - Hydra core seems to process transaction one by one which can only serves up to 10TPS. Ideally it can serve up to 1k mark.
   - Details: [stress-test](./stress-test/README.md)
   - Acceptance criteria: 1k TPS

2. Snapshot confirm instability

   - Rationale: At ~10 TPS, snapshots fail to confirm. The Head becomes unresponsive as transactions accumulate but no new snapshots are finalized, affecting fund safety and result in stale head.
   - Root cause: Hydra's single sequential event queue causes consensus (snapshot confirmation) and transaction ingestion to block each other.
   - It happens in high load situation (like in [stress-test](./stress-test/)).
   - Details: [snapshot-confirm-instability](./snapshot-confirm-instability/README.md)
   - Acceptance criteria: Snapshots confirm within 500ms at 10+ TPS

## CRITICAL

1. Make [1.3.0](https://github.com/cardano-scaling/hydra/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) changes optional

   - Rationale: This change introduces random downtime for duration of a few seconds, which severely affect trading reliability.
   - The security concern is legit, but not applicable to our case. In DeltaDeFi usage we disgard the contestant period logics since the trust assumption we apply is reputation based. So the fix is irrelevant but introduce UX overhaul in our case.
   - This is non-blocking since we can not updating hydra node and stay at version 1.2.0.
   - Acceptance criteria: make it optional flag

2. Memory bloat

   - Rationale: When UTXOs set grows, we observed a higher than linear space complexity, resulting in unpractical machine cose.
   - This is non-blocking since we can simply scale machine at start, but this is not sustainable if DeltaDeFi grows traction.
   - Details: [memory-bloat](./memory-bloat/issue-summary.md)
   - Acceptance criteria: can support

## IMPORTANT

1. Sideload snapshot instability

   - From time to time, we see sideload snapshot timeout:

   ```json
   {
     "tag": "SideLoadSnapshotSubmitted",
     "timeout": "Operation timed out after 300s seconds"
   }
   ```

   - This is not critical since we only experience it at edge usage (recovering old snapshot), investigating inside we see:

   ```json
   {
     "timestamp": "2026-01-05T07:28:17.153461661Z",
     "threadId": 93,
     "namespace": "HydraNode-\"alice-node\"",
     "message": {
       "node": {
         "by": {
           "vkey": "9d0ef705011396676ae1ed5f49924613d27d00c8d60eae28d3f9afeb7d2a6a39"
         },
         "outcome": {
           "error": {
             "sideLoadRequirementFailure": {
               "lastSeenSn": 760,
               "requestedSn": 7,
               "tag": "SideLoadSnNumberInvalid"
             },
             "tag": "SideLoadSnapshotFailed"
           },
           "tag": "Error"
         },
         "tag": "LogicOutcome"
       },
       "tag": "Node"
     }
   }
   ```

   - Acceptance criteria: confirmation of sideload snapshot will work in normal circumstances. Ideally with a table showing what scenario would fail.
